# Lifecycles

Maven is based around the central concept of a build lifecycle.

Lifecycle is the process for building and distributing a particular artifact (project) is clearly defined.

For the person building a project, this means that it is only necessary to learn a small set of commands to build any Maven project, and the _POM_ will ensure they get the results they desired.

There are three built-in build lifecycles:

- default: handles your project deployment
- clean: handles project cleaning
- site: handles the creation of your project's web site.

## Default phases

List of most common default lifecycle phases executed.

Handles project build and deployment

### `validate`

Checks if the project is correct and all necessary info is available

### `compile`

Compiles the source code of the project

- compile files will be place in _target_

### `test`

Runs the unit tests using a suitable testing framework

These tests should not require the code be packaged or deployed

### `integration-test`

Process and deploy the package if necessary into an environment where integration tests can be run

### `package`

Takes the compiled code and package it in its distributable format, such as a JAR.

### `verify`

Runs checks to verify the package is valid and meets quality criteria

### `install`

Installs the package into the local Maven repository (~/.m2/repository)

### `deploy`

Copies the final package to a remote repository for sharing with others

## Clean phases

### `pre-clean`

Execute processes needed prior to the actual project cleaning.s

### `clean`

Remove all files generated by the previous build.

- remove _target_ folder

### `post-clean`

Execute processes needed to finalize the project cleaning.

## Site phases

### `pre-site`

Execute processes needed prior to the actual project site generation

### `site`

Generate the project's site documentation

### `post-site`

Execute processes needed to finalize the site generation, and to prepare for site deployment

### `site-deploy`

Deploy the generated site documentation to the specified web server
