# Types of Redirections

## Standard Output Redirection `stdout`

Redirects standard output to a file. Creates the file if it doesn't exists or overwrites its content if it already exists.

```sh
echo "Hello, World!" > file.txt
```

Redirects standard output to a file. Creates the file if it doesn't exists, or appends the content to the end of the file if it already exists.

```sh
echo "Hello, World!" >> file.txt
```

## Standard Input Redirection `stdin`

Takes standard input from a file instead of the keyboard.

This takes the content of _file.txt_ as input for the _sort_ command, which sorts the lines in the file.

```sh
sort < file.txt
```

## Standard Error Redirection `stderr`

Redirects standard error to a file, overwriting its content.

```sh
ls non_existent_file 2>> error.log
```

Redirects standard error to a file, appending to the end of the file.

This redirects the error message generated by trying to list a non-existent file to error.log.

```sh
ls non_existent_file 2> error.log
```

## Null redirection `/dev/null`

A special device that discards any data written to it. Useful for suppressing output or errors.

This runs command and discards all output and errors, as if they never happened.

```sh
command > /dev/null 2>&1
```

## Redirecting Standard Output and Error to the same file

Redirects both stdout and stderr to the same file.

This ensures that both the standard output and the standard error are redirected to the file _output_and_error.log_.

```sh
command > output_and_error.log 2>&1
```

## Redirecting Standard Output and Error to different files

Redirects stdout and stderr to different files.

```sh
command > output.txt 2> errors.txt
```

## Redirecting Standard input and write to one or more files simultaneously

Reads from standard input and write to both standard output and one or more files simultaneously.

Allows you to view and save command output simultaneously.

```sh
command | tee [options] [file...]
```

This example writes the output of `ls -l` to both _file1.txt_ and _file2.txt_ while also displaying it on the terminal.

```sh
ls -l | tee file1.txt file2.txt
```

### Options

#### `-a` or `--append`

Append the output to the file instead of overwriting it.

```sh
echo "Hello, World!" | tee -a output.txt
```

#### `-i` or `--ignore-interrupts`

Ignores interrupt signals like Ctrl+C.

```sh
some_command | tee -i output.txt
```
